Correlation,Distribution
/img/cardImg/03.png
/img/examples/03/ModifySurfacePlotAppearanceExample_02.png,/img/examples/03/contour-and-surface.png,/img/examples/03/surface1_b.png,/img/examples/03/Tutorial_3DSurfaceMap_05.png
Source: https://se.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/surf.html,Source: http://pgfplots.net/tikz/examples/contour-and-surface,Source: http://www.cyber-wit.com/gallery_surface.html#surface,Source: https://www.originlab.com/doc/Tutorials/3D-Colormap-Surface
# 3D Surface Plot

3D Surface plots are diagrams for 3D data or graph of __y = f(x,z)__ showing a functional relationship between dependent variable __y__, and two independent variables __x__ and __z__. Colour can either be used to visualize __y__ or to visualize another function __w = g(x,z)__ showing a functional relationship between dependent variable __w__, and two independent variables __x__ and __z__.

These plots are useful for viewing the relationship between a dependent and two independent variables. They mostly used in engineering to plot three-dimensional relationship g(x, y, z). Another application can be in education to help students visualize three-dimensional geometry.

## Input

 x | y | z | 
:-------------:| :-----:| :-----:| 
4 | 8 | 12
16 | 20 | 24
28 | 32 | 36
40 | 44 | 48

## Construction of Surface Plot

The construction of surface plot require domains for two independent variables and incremental steps for the independent variables. Then using these domains and incremental step the dependent variable is calculated and the graph is plot using this dataset. For example let __y = sin(x) * cos(z)__. The Domain of __x__ and __z__ is defined as __(0,3.14)__ with an incremental step of __0.1__ (the domain of __x__ and __z__ can be identical or different). Using these domains as input to the function __y__ is calculated for all the combinations of __x__ and __z__ value. Using this triplet of __x, y__ and __z__ the plot is drawn.

## Pros and Cons of 3D Surface Plot

__Pros__
* Really good viewing the relationship between a dependent and two independent variables
* Can be used to peak and valleys in the function

__Cons__
* Some area of the graph could be hidden behind the peaks in the graph (opacity can be used to solve this problem)
* Choice of the domain can drastically affect how the graph looks
* Computationally heavy to implement

## Interactivity in VR to Enhance the Information

* An option to switch between the solid surface view and wireframe view can help in reducing occlusion problem

## Variations

* 3D surface plot with contours
* 3D surface plot with heatmap

## Similar Charts/Graphs

### [3D Contour](./4)